Overriding inspect (#27)
aliou/www: _posts/2020-02-18-overriding-inspect.md

---
layout: post
title: Changing perception of value objects by overriding inspect
description: >
  TBD
tags: [ruby, rails]
---

<!-- introduction about thinking about this while writing the previous post -->

> While writing my [previous post][], I realized that while using the attributes API allows us to avoid making mistakes when instantiating our value objects, it might not entirely convey that there's a limited number of objects that should be instantiated.

Reviewer: > it might not entirely convey that there's a limited number of objects that should be instantiated.

What do you mean by that ? If you are talking about the valid values of category, I can clearly see it using `Ship::Category::VALID_CATEGORIES`

Author: You still need to take the extra step of opening the `Ship::Category` class or to inspect it in your console. But yeah, you're right, I need to find a more compelling way to introduce the post.

To this end, I thought about a way to prevent this: let's pretend that our value objects are constants.

[previous post]: /2019/10/attributes-api-and-value-objects/

---

## Generating constants

First, let's take our `Ship::Category` from the previous post:

```ruby
class Ship::Category

>   VALID_CATEGORIES = %w(

Reviewer: Why not make them constants here in the definition and transform a bit the `category` here before checking if it is valid https://github.com/aliou/www/pull/27/files#diff-810c715800cb768265d03480b645a659R29

Author: I'm not sure I understand, could you add an example ?

Reviewer: > and transform a bit the category here before checking if it is valid https://github.com/aliou/www/pull/27/files#diff-810c715800cb768265d03480b645a659R29

While writing the example, figured this bit is not even necessary. I guess what I meant by my previous comment is : why not define the constants manually ?

```ruby
class Ship::Category
 SHUTTLE_CATEGORY = 'shuttle'
 WAR_SHIP_CATEGORY = 'war_ship'
...
  VALID_CATEGORIES = [
     SHUTTLE_CATEGORY, 
     WAR_SHIP_CATEGORY
...
  ]
```

Author: oh right, because it makes my whole post moot 😄

Reviewer: :D I see it being valuable if you have 10+ values, otherwise I'd prefer having them defined explicitly IMO - It prevents having to use meta-programming and overriding `inspect`. 
Although in the context of the post, I perfectly understand 👍

    @raw_category = category
  end

  def to_s
    raw_category
  end

  private

  attr_reader :raw_category
end
```

Let's start by defining constants for each of our values. Under the `initialize` method [^1], let's create constants using [`const_set`][]:

```ruby
class Shift::Category
  # ...

  VALID_CATEGORIES.each do |raw_category|
    const_set(raw_category.upcase, new(raw_category))
  end
end
```

[`const_set`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/stdlib/core/Module:const_set

Calling [`Ship::Category.constants`][] show us that our constants have correctly been created:

```ruby
pry(main)> Ship::Category.constants
# => [:WAR_SHIP, :TROOP_CARRIER, :SHUTTLE, :SUPPLY_CARRIER, :VALID_CATEGORIES]
```

[`Ship::Category.constants`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/stdlib/core/Module:constants

However, inspecting the constant reveals our trickery:

```ruby
pry(main)> Ship::Category::SHUTTLE
# => #<Ship::Category:0x00007fbddc853350 @raw_category="shuttle">
```

So, how do we really pretend that our `Ship::Category` object is truly a constant ? We can do this by overriding the [`inspect`][] method:

[`inspect`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/stdlib/core/Object:inspect

## Overriding inspect

> As we can see above, by default, `inspect` returns the class name, an representation of the memory address of the object and a list of instance variable of the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see above, by default, `inspect` returns the class name, a representation of the memory address of the object and a list of instance variables of the object.
```

 
In our case, we want `inspect` to instead display how the object should be accessed. This means making it look like the constants we've created above.

```ruby
class Shift::Category
  # ...

>   def inspect

Reviewer: clever one

Author: 😇

    "#{self.class}::#{raw_category.upcase}"
  end
end
```

With this, the value object is now displayed as a constant when inspecting the object or in logs:

```
# Before we had:
pry(main)> Ship::Category::SHUTTLE
=> #<Ship::Category:0x00007fbddc853350 @raw_category="shuttle">

# Now we have
pry(main)> Ship::Category::SHUTTLE
=> Ship::Category::SHUTTLE

```

> TODO: Conclusion about how this might be one of those times where ruby allow you to go too far.

Reviewer: 😂

```ruby
  VALID_CATEGORIES.each do |raw_category|
    const_set(raw_category.upcase, new(raw_category))
  end
```

[`const_set`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/stdlib/core/Module:const_set

Calling [`Ship::Category.constants`][] show us that our constants have correctly been created:

```ruby
pry(main)> Ship::Category.constants
# => [:WAR_SHIP, :TROOP_CARRIER, :SHUTTLE, :SUPPLY_CARRIER, :VALID_CATEGORIES]
```

[`Ship::Category.constants`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/stdlib/core/Module:constants

However, inspecting the constant reveals our trickery:

```ruby
pry(main)> Ship::Category::SHUTTLE
# => #<Ship::Category:0x00007fbddc853350 @raw_category="shuttle">
```

So, how do we really pretend that our `Ship::Category` object is truly a constant ? We can do this by overriding the [`inspect`][] method:

[`inspect`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/stdlib/core/Object:inspect

### Overriding inspect

TODO: Explain that we "simply" have to return the representation of our constant. Since it starts by an uppercase character, it will be displayed as if it is a constant.

```ruby

> def inspect

Reviewer 2: You should wrap the method in the class `Ship::Category` for better clarity

Author: 👍
